| [Home](https://bargavkondapu.com/sajc-web-development-101/)  | [Prev](https://bargavkondapu.com/sajc-web-development-101/notes/week-1/5-5) | [Next](https://bargavkondapu.com/sajc-web-development-101/notes/week-2/5-10) |

### College: Sri Amogha Junior College  (SAJC), Hyderabad
### Trainer: Bargav Kondapu
### Date: May 07, 2021

### Notes 

#### Discussed topics:
Open Discussion, Introduction to HTML, Introduction to W3 Schools, Introduction to visual studio Code,  Introduction to git. 

#### Goal & Assignment: 

Have an open discussion about all topics we discussed for the week! 
Students to install and start using VSCode. Understand concepts of git. 


#### Notes: 

##### Open discussion: 
Had a quick recap of previous two classes. Went through students assignments, on how they wanted their website to look like. Provided feedback and enhancements. 


##### Introduction to VSCode: 

Everyone need right tools to make their life better. Choosing a right text-editor, IDE is essential for any developer. 

As the website code grows, it will be tough to manage everything in notepad or system's default text editors. Hence we need to use text-editors that are developer focused.

A few examples for developer focused IDE's are Atom, Sublime Text, VSCode, Vim, Eclipse, Netbeans, ... Each have their own benefits and disadvantages and suitable for specific purposes. 

For this class, we are going to use VSCode. However, it would be helpful in later stages, for you to experiement with other text editors and IDE's and find the one that best suits you and your needs. 




##### HTML/CSS/JS: 

__HTML__: Hyper Text Markup Language. This is used to render elements in website. 
__CSS__: Cascading Style Sheets. Used to style the html elements. 
__JS__: Javascript. Programming language used to perform certain tasks within the browser. 

##### First Website: 
Students created their first website. 
- Step 1: Open notepad
- Step 2: Type in the following code. 

```

<html>
<head>
<title> First Website </title>
</head>
<body>
<p> Hello world </p>
</body>
</html>

```

- Save as ``first-website.html`` 
- Open the file using a webbrowser. (Right click on file, openwith -> chrome) or (Drag file onto browser) 

Congratulations! You just created your first website. Kudos!!!! 


